---
layout: post
title: PhD in wave-ice-ocean interactions at LOPS
subtitle: LOPS, Ifremer, Brest, France
tags: [PhD position, LOPS, Ifremer, ocean, sea ice, waves]
comments: false
---

As part of the ERC-WAAXT project, we are offering a Ph.D. project in 
'Investigating wave-ice feedbacks in the Arctic Ocean'.

Summer sea ice cover in the Arctic Ocean has been decreasing for 
decades, which is producing a corresponding increase in open water. 
This means that ice-free seasonal seas, with sufficient fetch for 
significant surface wave development, are now present.  Since surface 
waves are a primary mechanism for the exchange of momentum, energy, and 
mass between the atmosphere and the ocean, the appearance of this wave 
climate is expected to be linked to a significant change in upper-ocean 
dynamics in the Arctic.  The objective of this thesis is to investigate 
the feedback mechanisms, between the surface wave field, upper-ocean 
mixing, and sea ice cover, that are associated with the development of 
this seasonal wave field.  These feedbacks are complicated, poorly 
understood, often contradictory, and their net effect on Arctic sea ice 
and climate remains unclear.  The Ph.D. project will take a systematic 
approach to the problem, starting with basic theory and analysis of 
hindcast model output.  In situ and remote sensing observations will 
then be used to improve model parametrizations, and new simulations 
explicitly including wave effects will be run and analysed.  Findings 
will then be applied to future climate projections.


*Applications are due on 2020-05-15*


Candidates should have a strong background in math, physics, and 
numerical techniques.  Experience in oceanography and fluid mechanics, 
particularly related to surface waves and turbulence would be very 
advantageous.  A Master's degree or equivalent is required.

Interested candidates are encouraged to apply via the following website:
<https://theses.doctorat-bretagneloire.fr/sml/theses-2020/etudes-des-retro-actions-entre-vagues-et>


Information about the hosting institution can be found here: 
<https://www.umr-lops.fr>