---
layout: post
title: PhD position in Genoa, Italy
subtitle: University of Genoa
tags: [PhD, Italy, coastal ocean, engineering]
comments: false
---
The Department of Civil, Chemical and Environmental Engineering,
University of Genoa (Italy), has different openings for PhD positions in
the field of ocean and coastal engineering and oceanography. The
research will be carried out on different topics related to ocean
science and engineering (a detailed list of research subjects and
possible supervisors can be found here
http://dottorato.dicca.unige.it/eng/emaces/).

Candidates, in order be admitted to the selection, are expected to
contact a member of the scientific committee of the PhD program
(http://dottorato.dicca.unige.it/eng/info/staff/comitatoemaces.html), in
order to discuss a possible research project to be developed during the
PhD and to obtain a local support letter.

Please feel free to contact me for further information. The official
call can be found here https://unige.it/en/usg/en/phd-programmes
Candidates should apply to the Course in Civil, Chemical and
Environmental Engng (Curriculum FLUID DYNAMICS AND ENVIRONMENTAL
ENGINEERING) and to the Course in Marine Sciences and Technologies
(Curriculum in ENGINEERING FOR MARINE AND COASTAL ENVIRONMENTS).
Deadline to submit the applications is the 15th of June 2020 12.00
Italian time.

The conditions of the scholarship will match the University of Genoa
Doctoral scholarship, which provides funding for 3 years, with a net
salary of 1100 €/month (social security included). Medical care is
assured by the national health care system.

Requirements:
- Experience in computer programming (numerical modeling, Matlab,
Python, Fortran, C/C++, netcdf and grib files handling),
- Successful candidates will preferentially hold MS Degree in Civil
Engineering, Coastal Engineering, Ocean Engineering, Physics,
Mathematics, Earth Science or a in closely related field,
- Strong mathematics and physics background,
- Very good knowledge of spoken and written English,
- Ability to be a team player.

Regards

Giovanni Besio
