---
layout: post
title: PhD opportunity in Physical Oceanography
subtitle: Department of Geosciences at UiT, The Arctic University of Norway
tags: [PhD, Norway, Arctic, gas hydrates, modelling]
comments: false
---

The Department of Geosciences at UiT - The Arctic University of Norway has a PhD position vacant for applicants who wish to obtain the degree of Philosophiae Doctor (PhD). The position is connected to the Norwegian Research Council Centre of Excellence Centre for Arctic Gas Hydrate, Climate, and Environment (CAGE<http://www.cage.uit.no/>) and it involves collaboration with scientists from The Research Centre for Arctic Petroleum Exploration (ARCEx<http://www.arcex.no/>).

The position is for a period of four years. The nominal length of the PhD program is three years. The fourth year is distributed as 25 % each year, and will consist of teaching and other duties. The position will especially be assigned teaching duties in oceanography and/or modeling.

The objective of the position is to complete research training to the level of a doctoral degree. Admission to a PhD programme is a prerequisite for employment, and the programme period starts on commencement of the position. The PhD candidate shall participate in the faculty's organized research training, and the PhD project shall be completed during the period of employment.

The position's field of research:
Research in the Centre of excellence CAGE focuses on the role of the Arctic Ocean gas hydrate in the context of environmental and climate issues. Understanding methane bubble evolution and transport in the water column will help elucidating methane seepage influence on the benthic and pelagic environment and atmospheric climate gas composition. The fellow will in particular estimate bubble size distributions from image analysis and acoustic measurements, and will incorporate an existing process-based model into a high-resolution 3D model to understand the transport of dissolved and free methane.

Qualifications:
The position requires a Master's degree in physical oceanography or relevant field, and must have experience in numerical modeling. Some experience in signal processing would be beneficial. The fellow is expected to apply an interdisciplinary approach and to interact with sedimentary geologists, biogeochemists, biologists and oceanographers within and among working groups in CAGE.
Applicants may present a description outlining the academic basis of the PhD project.
The applicant must be able to document proficiency in English that satisfies the Norwegian Higher Education Entrance Qualification as described here<https://uit.no/Content/254419/cache=20191504201349/Engelskkrav%20ph.d.-studiet.pdf>.
The assessment will emphasize motivation and personal suitability for the position. You must be willing to engage in the ongoing development of your discipline and the university as a whole.

Application:
Your application must be submitted via the website: https://www.jobbnorge.no/en/available-jobs/job/185272/phd-fellow-in-physical-oceanography  and must include:
    Cover letter explaining your motivation and research interests
    CV
    Diplomas, diploma supplements and transcripts for Bachelor's and Master's degree
    Documentation of English language proficiency for PhD-studies<https://uit.no/Content/254419/PhD_EnglishProficiency_100913.pdf>
    References and certificates
    Master thesis, and any other academic works
    Project proposal

Qualification with a Master's degree is required before commencement in the position. If you are near completion of your Master's degree, you may still apply and submit a draft version of the thesis and a statement from your supervisor or institution indicating when the degree will be obtained. You must document completion of your degree before commencement in the position.

The documentation has to be in English or a Scandinavian language. We only accept applications sent via www.jobbnorge.no.

