---
layout: post
title: PhD position in Victoria, Canada
subtitle: University of Victoria
tags: [PhD, Canada, numerical modelling, fisheries]
comments: false
---
PhD position at the University of Victoria, Canada:

Modelling marine ecosystem and fisheries impacts in the changing Arctic Ocean


We are looking for a new graduate student to start in fall 2020 to work on a research project aiming to model Arctic marine ecosystems under rapid environmental changes.


Climate change is causing warming, ocean acidification, and changes in nutrient supplies that have large ramifications to marine ecosystems and fisheries. The Arctic Ocean is particularly vulnerable because of the large and rapid changes in mean and extreme conditions such as warming and loss of sea ice. Marine organisms and ecosystems may experience higher risk of extinction, loss of ecosystem functions, but they may also adapt or acclimatize to the changing environment. These changes pose both challenges and opportunities to Arctic fisheries and dependent coastal communities. Recent advances in climate, ocean and ecosystem modelling for the Arctic Ocean make it possible to examine the mechanism of these impacts and quantify the associated risks and opportunities under scenarios of global change.


More specifically the project will look at how multiple stressors might affect marine production and fisheries potential. Specific focus will be put on the Western Canadian Arctic and the High Arctic.

The projects will center around the analysis and refinement of a coupled sea ice -ocean - biogeochemical model for the Arctic based on the NEMO (Nucleus for European Modelling of the Ocean) modelling system but may also include the evaluation of a variety of global Earth system models as well as the link to species distribution models.


The graduate student position is a collaboration between the Institute of Ocean Sciences of the Department of Fisheries and Oceans Canada, the Canadian Center for Climate Modelling and Analysis, and the University of Victoria. The student will work with a team of interdisciplinary researchers from academic and government research labs. The position will be based at the School of Earth and Oceans Sciences at the University of Victoria, BC.


Students interested in applying should:

  *   Meet the requirement for admission to UVic graduate studies and are required to follow the formal process for application to the center of graduate studies at the University of Victoria: http://web.uvic.ca/seos/graduate/index.htmFor more information,

  *   Have a BSc or MSc degree in oceanography, chemistry, biology or other relevant degrees (Preference will be given to PhD candidates, but depending on background MSc student applications will also be considered)

  *   Be able to work independently and as part of a team.

  *   Have good communication skills, including oral and written English


Preference will be given to students who already have the following experiences: numerical modelling, handling large data sets, and writing scientific publications.


For Information on the Canadian Centre for Climate Modelling and Analysis, the University of Victoria or the Institute of Ocean Sciences see:

https://www.canada.ca/en/environment-climate-change/services/climate-change/science-research-data/modeling-projections-analysis/centre-modelling-analysis.html

http://www.science.gc.ca/eic/site/063.nsf/eng/h_85EB3DA0.html

http://web.uvic.ca/seos/


Application: Please send (1) a cover letter explaining how your interests and experiences would make you a suitable candidate; (2) two example essays that you have written e.g., your honour thesis, class reports, previous publications, and (3) your CV to Dr. Nadja Steiner (nadja.steiner@canada.ca). The positions will start as early as September 1st 2020 and remain open until a suitable candidate is found.
