---
layout: post
title: Three PhD positions in Lecce, Italy
subtitle: Centro Euro-Mediterraneo sui Cambiamenti Climatici
tags: [PhD, Italy, numerical modelling, forecasting]
comments: false
---
**3 scholarships founded by CMCC, with the following different
research themes:**

- Climate downscaling and oceanography:Downscaling of seasonal forecasts
for coastal areas of the ocean

The successful applicants will have to carry out the research in Lecce,
after the general courses/training period in Bologna.

This research topic is concerned with the development and implementation
of new seasonal atmofphere and ocean forecasting capacity in coastal
areas by employing numerical models. The activities will exploit the
exixsting Copernicus Climate Service (C3S) Seasonal Forecasting products
such as the ones developed by CMCC and downscale them by means of
statistical and deterministic (with numerical models) approach in the
coastal and marine domains. The numerical models to be used for the
ocean will be also the new generation unstructured grid models capable
of resolving the coastal geometry in details. The skill of ocean
variables from the downscaled seasonal forecasting system will be
assessed using observables Essential Climate Variabless (ECVs) to
develop and provide user-relevant indicators. The coastal seasonal
forecasting system capabilities will provide examples of user-relevant
products in support of improved ecosystem management, risk management
and blue growth.

- Oceanography and marine pollution:Marine pollution modeling and risk
mapping.

The successful applicant will carry out the research in Lecce, after the
general courses/training period in Bologna.

Oceanographic monitoring and modeling will be used to study the pathways
and fate of marine pollutants such as hydrocarbons and marine litter. In
this PHD, advanced modelling methods and risk mapping techniques related
to tracing pollutants on local and regional scales. The PhD will also
consider the coupling of pollutants models with met-oceanographic
transport fields from operational oceanography products such as
Copernicus Marine Monitoring Environment Service and downscaled high
resolution systems.  Ensemble and multi-model methods, risk assessment
algorithms and eventually the support of decision support systems will
be developed. Integration of modelling and observing systems for model
validation will be carried out. The PHD will further develop the
MEDSLIK-II oil spill community model and the CMCC marine litter model.
Possible key questions of the PhD are identified as follows: Which
factors affect the dispersion of the pollutants in the marine
environment? What happens to the contaminants on the ocean’s surface, in
the water column and sediments? How do marine pollutants interact with
marine habitats? How do they influence marine and maritime resources?
What is the rate of fragmentation, biofouling, and sedimentation of
plastics? What are the mechanisms of beaching, seabed deposition?

- Ocean predictions: 

The successful applicant will carry out the
research in Bologna. This research scholarship deals with the
understanding of wave induced mixing processes and their
parameterization in numerical ocean models. The final objective is to
improve the coupled wave-current numerical model of the Mediterranean
Sea in hindcast and forecasting mode. This project is connected to the
Copernicus Marine Environment Monitoring Service
(https://marine.copernicus.eu/).

Please find “How to Apply” and details about courses/training here:

https://phd.unibo.it/future-earth-climate-change-societal-challenges/en
