---
layout: post
title: Two Phd positions in Miami, USA
subtitle: University of Miami RSMAS
tags: [PhD, USA, monitoring, machine learning]
comments: false
---
To view all Rosenstiel School opportunities for Fall 2020, Spring 2021, and
Fall 2021 (so far), please check out this link:
https://graduate.rsmas.miami.edu/admissions/phd-assistanships/index1.html

Master of Professional Science (MPS) Applications are also still available
for Fall 2020 (mps.miami.edu).

**PhD Opportunity 1: Iceberg Monitoring from Space**

Icebergs range in all sizes from small ones to the size of a Caribbean
Island, or “Ice Island”. The two primary goals of this project is to use
space-based satellite images from synthetic aperture radar (SAR) and
electro-optical (EO) sensors to classify icebergs in terms of types, shape
and dimensions above and below the water line. The second objective is to
develop a predictive model by detecting and monitoring with SAR and EO
satellites the fate of icebergs as they traverse the North Atlantic along
“Iceberg Alley” off the coastal waters of Labrador to the warmer waters
south of Newfoundland and as far as the Grand Banks. Research will be
conducted with the University of Miami’s Center for Southeastern Tropical
Advanced Remote Sensing (CSTARS), a state-of-the-art satellite tracking and
processing facility

To apply please contact faculty here: Dr. Hans C. Graber,
hgraber@cstars.miami.edu

**PhD Opportunity 2: Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence Applied to
Ocean Features**

This Office of Naval Research sponsored Project seeks to improve extraction
and classification of ocean features from voluminous archives of satellite
synthetic aperture radar (SAR) imagery such as the one hosted at CSTARS
with ~10 million images. The student(s) will participate in developing
appropriate machine learning (ML) algorithms and using artificial
intelligence (AI) to identify, extract and classify ocean features such as
internal waves, eddies, fronts, ice floes and bathymetry. The Project will
also involve researching and developing better SAR processing
algorithms. Research will be carried out with the UM’s Center for
Southeastern Tropical Advanced Remote Sensing (CSTARS), a state-of-theart
satellite tracking and processing facility.

To apply please contact faculty here: Dr. Hans C. Graber,
hgraber@cstars.miami.edu; Dr. Roland Romeiser, rromeiser@rsmas.miami.edu
